Alright. In this video, we are gonna
introduce you to MapStruct and that's
one of my favorite little libraries.
Essentially, what MapStruct is, it's a
code generator for Java and it's gonna
help you map beans. It's gonna help
reduce a lot of the coding for type
conversions and it makes it really
really easy. So effectively, you just
declare interface, and through that
interface, you can configure that mapping
between two different types or two
different Java beans. And now that we're
in the section on REST Services, a real
common use case is to take your domain
objects and expose that data using  DTOs
or Data Transfer Objects. You can expose
the domain object directly over the
RESTful interface. But from experience,
usually this net will work out for small
projects. But as you get into the larger
enterprise type projects, you're
getting probably transition to DTOs at
some point. I've seen it time and time
again, where you think you can cut down a
little code and expose that POJO from
Hibernate directly on the interface. But
chances are, your projects can get
a little more complicated and you're no
longer gonna expose that data type
directly on your REST interface. So MapStruct
was released in June of 2013.
A guy named Gunnar Morling is the founder.
He's been really driving it. He's also a
Red Hat Engineer works on the Hibernate
Validator project and he's also getting
involved, they have them listed as a Spec
Lead of the Bean Validation 2.0 project.
That's a new project coming out in
helping us do validations. So, that is not
released yet but they are doing some
interesting stuff over there.
A lot like Project Lombok, we've already
seen in the course MapStruct is gonna
be an annotation based processor so it
hooks into the Java compiler for us. And
effectively what we do is we'll declare
interfaces for MapStruct and then
MapStruct is gonna use that data to
build classes at runtime for us. So we
declare the interface MapStruct will
produce the Java code for us.
Now, there's a number of different
mappers out there and this is a little
benchmark that we can look at. So
obviously, the fastest way is gonna
be manual and we already looked at doing
manual type conversions before in this
course. But Selma and MapStruct, they're
pretty close in terms of performance.
There's not a huge difference there.
JMapper is pretty good as well. And these
are different options and probably the
one that's been around the longest is
Dozer. But you can see that it's got a
relatively poor performance compared to
the others. So, I haven't used a lot of
the others. I've used Dozer in the past,
but it's been a long time that projects
and I think they have really done a
release in probably four years, if I
remember. It's project is kind of a dead
project. But you'll still see it out
there in legacy code. I have not
personally used Selma. I've heard good things
about it. I do like MapStruct because it
is rather feature work rich and it works
pretty well. So from a performance
standpoint, there's really not a huge
reason to go one direction or the other.
If you really need that raw performance,
you do wanna do a manual process
that's where you can really tweak the
performance rather than using something
that's gonna generate code for you.
Now let's take a look at an example. So
this is right off the MapStruct
website and we have two classes. We have
a Car class and a CarDto. And really, we
wanna map between these. And here, you
can see that down on the bottom there
that interface so that's gonna be the
mapper that we declare. And you can see
there on the bottom line, we have
the mapping source numberOfSeats and
seatCount. So that's how we map up the
two. And notice that they're not doing
make and or type. So we're gonna get some
when the names do match. It's gonna try to do that type conversion for us,
based on the matching the names. But here,
we have a numberOfSeats on one class and
seatCount on the other, and we wanna
make that mapping manually. So when the
property names are different, that's when
we definitely have to go out and declare.
Now to take a look at how this is used,
you can see here we have a unit test. I
put the interface above there for
reference but the unit test. We create a
new Car, then we wanna create or get a CarDto. And from the convenience method, we
can do a CarMapper get an instance. And
that's gonna declare an instance for
us and do the type conversion for us. So
its kind of a nice nice little
convenience method there, that they're
using in the when clause of the unit test.
And then, you can see that they had the
standard assertions after that. Now a few
common questions. Can we use MapStruct
with Project Lombok? Yes, but you need to
be using MapStruct 1.2 or higher, and
then, also project Lombok 1.16.14 or
higher. And I just peaked and we are on
1.16.17 or 16 right now, so we are beyond
that. We're using a Spring Boot project
that we are in this course. So we are
good to go there and we just need to add
in to our project the dependency for MapStruct.
Then, is it compatible with IntelliJ
and Eclipse? Yes, it is. You don't need it,
but you there are plugins for both IDEs
that does give you some nice
functionality and I'll probably install
the plug-in for myself. The one for
Eclipse has been out for some time, but
the one for IntelliJ just came out.
I'm recording this in September of 2017
so that I think it was just released in
August. But barely a month old. Java 8 Streams are they supported?
Yes, this is a new feature in MapStruct
1.2 so or higher. You know, just a quick
note about MapStruct 1.2, we are
currently on a candidate release to
1.2.0.CR2 was released on August 28th
2017. This is supposed to be the last one.
And the chatter in the project right now
is that, that's gonna go GA any time
now. So, as soon as it does, I'll be
updating the source code. But CR2
releases are pretty darn stable. I've
used it
passed. That's a probably production
quality at this point, so I wouldn't be
afraid to use it for a major project at
this point. Like I said, the official
release and the final release should be
any day now. It might even be released
before I have a chance to publish this
video.